Welcome to our hands-on, intensive, one day workshop. You will leave here 
today with all the technical tools and knowledge you need to read and write 
your own software! If you have not yet registered, you can do so here:

http://learntocode.eventbrite.com/


IMPORTANT NOTES:

    1. This workshop is not about building websites.

    2. Register before 3:00p.m. the Friday before the workshop day. You must 
    register before then, no exceptions or walk-ins.

    3. You should bring an ID for building security to check on the workshop 
    day, as they will have a list of attendees.

You will soon understand the basic concepts of computers, information 
processing, and modern programming languages empower yourself with a set of 
problem solving tools you can apply to any situation. Students at all skill 
levels are welcome, though beginners will benefit most from this study. No 
experience is required other than a strong desire to learn how to program! 
Students will walk out of this workshop having learned the following:

    - The history of computers, from ancient to modern times

    - How a modern computer works, from hardware to software

    - Working with your computer's operating system using commands

    - Installing a package manager to install programming tools (Homebrew)

    - Programming language basics and using an interpreter

    - Creating programs using step-by-step outlines

    - Researching and reading documentation

    - Installing third party software libraries

    - A brief introduction to advanced programming concepts

Please note that this workshop is not about "building web sites" or using HTML 
or other markup languages or any other form of "front end design"; Python is 
best described as a "back end" technology and the workshop is all about how 
computers work "under the hood" with programming.

You must bring a laptop. MacBooks with Mac OS X (10.4 or greater) preferred 
because they already come pre-installed with all the tools you need to get 
started programming immediately. Step by step instructions will be provided 
prior to start of the workshop to help you get your laptop ready for 
programming if you don't have a Mac. Attendees will not be able to follow 
along with learning Unix commands if they're working on a Windows laptop. 
Please arrive at 11:00a.m. sharp if you think you will need help with your 
laptop's setup!

If you are using a Windows PC you must install Python - this applies ONLY to
Windows PCs. The self-installing Python version you need to download can be 
found at this link:

http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.7.2/python-2.7.2.msi

Next you will need to follow the instructions under the sections "Finding 
python.exe" and "Finding your script files", as written in the tutorial found 
here:

http://www.imladris.com/Scripts/PythonForWindows.html

Light and healthy refreshments will be served during the workshop, but please 
bring a bag lunch if you have any dietary restrictions, allergies, or other 
requirements - there will be a short break to eat lunch.

You can also find more information about this workshop in a blog post:

http://mikecapr.io/2012/01/30/on-teaching-and-inspiration/

and the presentation from the starting lecture is online here:

http://prezi.com/0sccgmctm16i/a-conceptual-history-of-computing/


Thank you!

Mike Caprio
mik3cap at gmail
@mik3cap